TechCrunch was not invited. At this point it was still just three 20-somethings
without a single penny of outside investment.

I was still working full time at Powerset on July 1, 2008 when we learned that
Powerset had just been acquired by Microsoft for around $100 million. This was
interesting timing. With the acquisition, I was going to be faced with a choice
sooner than I had anticipated. I could either sign on as a Microsoft employee or
quit and go GitHub full time. At 29 years old, I was the oldest of the three
GitHubbers, and had accumulated a proportionally larger amount of debt and
monthly expenditure. I was used to my six digit lifestyle. Further confounding
the issue was the imminent return of my wife, Theresa, from her PhD fieldwork in
Costa Rica. I would soon be transitioning from make-believe bachelor back to
married man.

To muddy the waters of decision even more, the Microsoft employment offer was
juicy. Salary + $300k over three years juicy. That's enough money to make
anybody think twice about anything. So I was faced with this: a safe job with
lots of guaranteed money as a Microsoft man &#8211;or&#8211; a risky job with
unknown amounts of money as an entrepreneur. I knew things with the other GitHub
guys would become extremely strained if I stayed on at Powerset much longer.
Having saved up some money and become freelancers some time ago, they had both
started dedicating full time effort to GitHub. It was do or die time. Either
pick GitHub and go for it, or make the safe choice and quit GitHub to make
wheelbarrows full of cash at Microsoft.

If you want a recipe for restless sleep, I can give you one. Add one part "what
will my wife think" with 3,000 parts Benjamin Franklin; stir in a "beer anytime
you damn well please" and top with a chance at financial independence.

I've become pretty good at giving my employers the bad news that I'm leaving the
company to go do something cooler. I broke the news to my boss at Powerset on
the day the employment offer was due. I told him I was quitting to go work full
time on GitHub. Like any great boss, he was bummed, but understanding. He didn't
try to tempt me with a bigger bonus or anything. I think deep down he knew I was
going to leave. I may have even received a larger incentive to stay than others,
on account of my being a flight risk. Those Microsoft managers are crafty, I
tell you. They've got retention bonuses down to a science. Well, except when you
throw an entrepreneur, the singularity of the business world, into the mix.
Everything goes wacky when you've got one of those around.

In the end, just as Indiana Jones could never turn down the opportunity to
search for the Holy Grail, I could no less turn down the chance to work for
myself on something I truly love, no matter how safe the alternative might be.
When I'm old and dying, I plan to look back on my life and say "wow, that was an
adventure," not "wow, I sure felt safe."
